What are the main methods of selling?
Well, now we will look at the sales stimulation.
Probably the biggest and most basic block,
because today we found out that the BTL methods,
the methods of selling, are more and more active,
more active in the market,
bring more and more results,
because the situation in the market is developing in this way.
Let's see what are the main methods of selling stimulation.
Here is a chain of goods from the manufacturer to the buyer.
And there we see several links.
After the manufacturer, we have a distributor,
if it is not there, maybe there is a dealer,
and the next is the wholesale,
and the next is the trading link,
which brings our goods to the buyer.
So, the best way to stimulate the sales
is to do it in a complex way,
starting from the manufacturer,
starting from the company itself,
and ending with the company that offers your goods to the market,
that is, with the trading point.
If you have at least one link,
especially when it comes to the export of new goods to the market,
then the whole company may not have the proper effect
or fail,
because by stimulating one or two of the chains,
our chain is not like that, it breaks.
When it breaks,
some of the companies that present our goods to the market are not motivated.
Since there is no motivation for sales,
they just don't do it,
or they don't do it the way we would like.
Spending certain funds, we don't get the result,
because there is no complex impact on the market.
What are the main methods of stimulation?
The first is the trade marketing programs,
which are aimed at the trading link.
The dealer, distributors, wholesale,
and retail trading networks or shops that offer products to the market
are related to the trading link.
The second is direct marketing,
which we will definitely talk about today.
These are merchandising events that are held at trading points.
They are also related to the stimulation of sales.
A competent merchandising allows you to increase sales from 80% to 300%.
This is a very large resource in the hands of the company.
And, of course, another method is consumer promotion.
This is an event aimed at the end consumer,
because it simply stimulates the trading link.
We provide you with products on shelves,
but we will not encourage our customer to buy our product.
Therefore, of course, with a complex impact and the impact of the end consumer,
it is just as important and necessary.
Let's first consider the goals.
The main goals that promote sales.
The first goal or group of goals,
the most important is, of course, increasing sales volumes
or accelerating the product turnover of the company.
This group has a list of certain goals,
which is presented on the slide and in your workbooks.
What goals can be achieved by stimulating this group?
Let's see.
Of course, the first is the import of a new product to the market.
This is the main goal, if you import a new product.
The second is, of course, the sale of the product,
for example, in connection with the end of the season
or with the expiring expiration date.
We can also set such a goal here.
Naturally, this is an acceleration of the purchase,
that is, a more frequent purchase of a particular product
or increasing the volume.
Previously, we bought a certain amount,
now we want to buy twice as much, for example.
Remember, for example, shampoo.
Previously, it was said that shampoo was intended only to wash the head,
for example, once or twice a week.
Now we see that the bottle says
that shampoo is intended for daily use.
This is just an increase in the volume of purchases.
That is, we buy shampoo now much more than before.
This is how you can give an example with any product.
Okay, the next group of goals that we will consider.
The next group of goals is the implementation of the pyramid of communication.
What is the pyramid of communication?
When we see a product, we go through several stages.
The first is awareness.
We just find out about this product, that there is such a product.
But we don't know what kind of product it is yet.
The next stage is information.
When we study more deeply the information about this product
and find out how it can be used, why, for what, and so on.
The next is the attitude to the brand.
We have already looked at what kind of product it is,
and we develop our attitude, positive or negative.
After that, we only make a decision about the purchase.
Will we buy this product or not?
What are the goals of this group?
The first goal is, of course, getting acquainted with the company.
Because first you need to know about the company.
The next goal is getting acquainted with the product,
which we can put to a certain number of consumers.
One of the goals can be the purchase.
Sometimes it is very important when we introduce a new product to the market.
First, our buyers should try this product,
and then understand whether they need it or not in the future
in order to make a second purchase.
Of course, deepening knowledge about the product can also be a goal,
when we tell about its properties in addition.
And, of course, increasing the number of visitors to a particular point of sale can also be a goal.
The goals that are described here can be used
when planning events for stimulation,
only by adding numbers and deadlines.
These are ready-made goals that will help you define what you want in this market.
And now we will look at two more groups of goals.
The next group of goals is product positioning and positioning.
This group of goals is used when we plan to introduce a new brand
and make a future brand out of it.
Then, of course, it is important for us to know how we will position our product,
what the buyers will think about it,
whether they will confirm the positioning that we offer them for this product.
What goals can be here?
Of course, attracting customers to a certain segment,
because we do positioning for each segment separately.
Remember, we said that each segment presents its own requirements for the product.
Based on these requirements, we determine the positioning of the product.
The next point is, of course,
the image of the product in the consumer's mind.
This is how various support actions are held
to remind our product,
to remind our image,
to remind our slogan,
to remind our product idea,
so that the buyers have the so-called knowledge without a clue.
For example, you are asked,
what beer brands do you like?
And you call those brands without a clue,
which are produced by the company that conducts this survey.
Thus, this is knowledge without a clue.
This is what all manufacturers want to achieve,
because it is the main key to success.
You are known, and, accordingly, some part of it is bought.
And another group of goals that we will consider
is the preservation and increase of market share.
At least two goals can be set in this subgroup.
The first is to preserve market share.
Usually, this goal is set in the high season,
because all companies hold shares,
and we need to keep at least our share,
or maybe increase it,
and take away from the competitor part of our buyers.
And another goal is to switch buyers from the competitor's trading brand
to our trading brand.
This needs to be done very carefully,
but nevertheless, many companies do this,
and many achieve success.
Well, we have considered the main groups of goals,
and you can use them, as I said,
by setting numbers and deadlines.
And now let's look at the main tools
for stimulating the sale or the main tools of trade marketing.
We will start with the consideration of the tools
for stimulating the sale.
The first is, of course, the discounts,
various discounts and various bonuses
that we offer to our customers.
Discounts can be both volumetric, seasonal, and holiday,
and for a comprehensive purchase,
and for encouraging the sale of a new product,
whatever we do
to make our customer interested in working with us.
But there are also bonuses.
Bonuses often work even better than discounts,
because a bonus is a certain bonus
for completing a task.
And by setting a correct task,
we get a very effective result.
What are the bonuses?
We can offer bonuses for increasing the distribution,
for selling a certain top assortment,
for fulfilling a set plan,
which, of course, needs to be pursued.
It can be a team bonus,
which is given for, for example,
a group or a specific plan to your client,
which will encourage the activity of all employees,
all team members.
Actually, bonuses are considered more effective
than discounts today.
Nevertheless, you can't avoid discounts.
This is a standard tool for stimulating the sale.
Let's consider two more tools.
These are special events and merchandising,
which we have already talked about.
What do special events have to do with them?
These are specialized exhibitions,
where companies participate most often.
Naturally, you need to prepare for them very well,
and set tasks in the same way,
and monitor their execution.
Specialized exhibitions are not only an image moment,
although, of course,
you can't remove the image moment.
The exhibition cannot give
a momentary increase in sales,
but increasing the client base,
increasing sales or promoting a new product
is a must-do.
The next special event is a presentation of a new product,
training inside the company of your clients,
which must be held
in order to maintain the information level,
knowledge of your product,
loyalty to the company, awareness.
The same events are held by companies in a mandatory order.
These are also various professional conferences,
press conferences,
various trainings, seminars,
which are dedicated to your product
or are connected with your product.
The next tool is merchandising,
which, as I said,
allows you to increase sales from 80% to 300%.
This is only in my practice.
Maybe someone had higher numbers.
Nevertheless, what does merchandising allow you to do?
It allows you to carry out a competent product layout,
to present POS materials,
which will inform the client
about the events,
discounts, bonuses,
information about the new product.
These are various lottery competitions
held at the place of sale,
at the trading point.
This is advertising at the place of sale,
which will also help to draw attention
to your product.
These are sales consultants,
who certainly increase sales
of your product several times
if they work competently and professionally.
We will talk about this later.
Let's consider the main objects
of the impact of trade marketing programs.
Who do we influence and who do we work for?
Here is the whole chain.
As I said, the first in this chain
is, of course, your own staff.
You need to start with him.
Especially if you introduce a new product,
focus on this.
Not a single trading staff of the company,
even if he is very loyal to the management of the company,
will not be pleased with the appearance of a new product.
Because it is difficult to sell it,
and you should pay special attention to this.
If you introduce a new product to the market,
the first person to be motivated
is your own trading staff.
Yes, they get a bonus or a percentage
of the sales volume they have made.
But this is not all.
One thing is to sell a well-known product,
which does not require any special effort
to pay for its own cost.
The buyers themselves ask for it,
they buy it, and our sales managers
will successfully implement the product
that they sell themselves
and will not pay attention
to your new product.
This is a problem from the point of view
that it should be presented correctly,
positioned correctly,
and the competitors should tell
about the competitive advantages of the new product.
Otherwise, how can you convince a buyer
to take it and try it?
After all, the buyer also has a risk.
He invests funds that are not known
whether they will return quickly.
And fast turnover is one of the tasks
of any buyer.
Therefore, by putting all links of your chain
at risk,
when you introduce a new product,
we must take into account
that our sales managers
will play a key role here.
And when you introduce a new product,
you must start working with them.
Then, when your product
is already in the stable line,
it is not necessary to do this.
Sometimes you can hold
supportive events
in the form of contests,
various bonuses,
in order to remind
what needs to be done.
But you will not need
constant stimulation.
It is only necessary at the very first stage.
The next person
who enters this chain
is a branch network or a distributor,
depending on what your company has.
Maybe you have branches,
maybe not, but in any case
there are intermediaries
who must be stimulated in the same way.
Because the same law works here.
What is already known
or is already sold well.
Therefore,
in order to reduce risks,
we give discounts, bonuses,
we come up with various programs.
And this is justified.
Why do those companies
that work in the market
and are not holders of the brand
have to bear certain risks?
We must pay for these risks.
Because we are the initiators
of a particular process,
a particular product
and a particular product.
The entire trading chain,
which is indicated here on the slide,
must be thought out
throughout the chain
for the stimulation of sales.
Otherwise, as I said,
when any of these links fall out,
you will not achieve a comprehensive result.
And there will be no synergy
from your actions.
Let's look at the main methods of stimulation.
They are divided into two main groups.
These are price methods and non-price methods.
The first one we will consider
is the price method.
And the first of the price methods
is our favorite seasonal discount,
which we give.
Almost any company does this.
As I said,
in the high season,
the discount is additional
in order to capture or retain
its share of the market.
And in the low season,
when there is practically no sale
or it is sharply reduced,
the discount is used quite often.
The next discount is the holiday discount,
which is also particularly popular.
Our clients, our consumers
are waiting for seasonal discounts.
Remember the New Year's sales.
Yes, we give discounts,
but what is the turnover we get?
After all, according to the statistics,
sales in the New Year increase by 250%
compared to the average sales volume
per month.
Therefore, such a discount is justified.
We earn due to the turnover.
If your product has a certain shelf life,
if it has a seasonal direction,
of course, a discount allows us
to keep a balance
on the stock of our products.
The next discount is
a loss leader.
What is this discount?
Remember such things.
You are driving along the highway
and suddenly there is an advertisement
and it is written
that there is a crossroad
in the shopping network
and today a watermelon
costs 3 rubles per kilogram.
And you think,
how great, if a watermelon
costs so cheaply,
then everything else is probably
also at a similar price.
And so we get hooked.
This discount is called
or this program is called a loss leader.
When we take the product
and the leader in sales,
in turnover,
the most popular in this period,
we set the price to cost,
and earn on other products,
because we set higher prices
on other products.
This is a very well-working method
and almost all buyers
come across it.
The next discount is
a discrimination discount.
What is this discount?
Remember when you come to the museum
and what you see there.
Children are free,
citizens of the Russian Federation
are free,
and the rest are free.
Here is a discrimination discount.
When you set the price
for the same product
for different categories of consumers,
such a system
works not only in museums.
Now it is very active,
for example, in the services
of air transport,
when, for example, young people
under 25 years old
are given a discount on a ticket
and you can buy
two tickets back and forth
for the price of one.
These are very good programs
that work great
and are very active abroad.
The next discount is
a discount for a large volume.
This discount is also standard,
as well as seasonal,
and is used by almost all companies
that work in the market.
When we set certain turnover
and thus stimulate
the sale of a product,
the discount is standard,
is used often,
and works in one way or another.
The next discount is a discount on time.
Remember, in stores,
a happy hour,
or, for example,
from the 1st to the 15th,
there will be such a discount,
and from the 15th to the 30th
there will be less discount.
Thus, you are encouraged
to buy a particular product
Distributor companies
use such a discount
before New Year's sales.
They usually say
that in November there will be a discount
to unload supplies,
to unload their logistics,
so that, for example,
most companies buy in November,
and not in December.
This is how you can use this discount.
The next discount is discount or gift cards.
Well, probably,
many of us now have different cards,
discount cards, gift cards,
in any store it already works,
in some even the loyalty program works,
but this is more
not related to the price method,
but there is still a discount for the price,
most often it is a deposit,
and we use it one way or another.
This makes us return
to certain stores,
which means it works.
But one more point is the sale of loans.
This is a very developing area,
there are a lot of consumer loans now,
and it is even difficult to name a product
that is not being sold on credit.
Almost everything.
As long as you are credit-capable,
as long as you have a good credit history,
if you have it,
and as long as you are ready to buy on credit.
And so, please,
this is a very good method
to stimulate the sale of your product.
For example, you sell some equipment,
of course, you will immediately increase sales
if a person makes an offer.
You don't need to buy a car,
you don't need to buy a car,
you just need to buy a product,
and you will pay later.
This is very good for our customers.
And now let's look at the main
non-price methods.
They are just as popular
as the price ones,
but have a slightly different nature.
We are not playing at the price,
but playing at various gifts, bonuses,
and so on. Let's see.
The first method is credit cards.
Well, it's not a discount.
Here's an example.
You come to a store
where men's underpants are sold.
You buy one or two of them,
and you are given virtual money
with the amount written on it.
For example, 200, 300, 500 rubles.
And you are told
that the next time you buy
another pair of underpants,
you can use this card
as a credit.
That is, this amount will be taken
as internal money of the client.
This is the same method that makes
the client come back.
Free samples or sampling
work very well
when new goods are brought to the market.
When you offer your products
to try in small versions,
in miniatures,
samples are given
or free samples that the client
tries and decides for himself
whether this product is interesting
or not. In fact, free samples
can be applied to the experience link.
When we give a free product
or a so-called free product,
free in quotes,
from money.
That is, if the program
can be made such that
if a company buys a certain amount
of product,
then so many free samples are attached to it.
This works very well
because it allows the first company
to try the product itself.
The second
is the ability to sell this product.
And the third
is to give it to someone,
to win loyalty.
There are many
ways to use this product.
And it works very well
for both end users
and for the trading link.
I highly recommend it.
The next
method is gifts.
That is, you give a certain
gift to a certain product,
a necessary thing for the client.
The word necessary is key.
Because if this gift is not necessary,
for example, you may remember
that a year or two ago there was an advertisement
about buying an apartment and a cap as a gift.
It was funny,
but nevertheless everyone remembered.
However, the gift was completely useless.
So it is here.
Please, evaluate
what kind of gift you have.
Will it be useful?
And one more thing.
The cost of the gift should not exceed
more than 30% of the product's cost.
Otherwise, your customers
will ask
why such expensive gifts
are given.
We all understand that these are costs.
Therefore, be careful with the amount of the gift.
The gift should not be more expensive
than the product itself.
The next method is bonuses,
which we give for the fulfillment of a particular bonus.
For example, your distributor
sold a certain
number of goods
and got a certain number of new customers
that you planned for him.
You can pay him a bonus
for this,
for which he will be very grateful to you.
And then he will continue
to work with you as a partner.
The bonus can be
not only money,
it can be various gifts,
for example,
trips,
or some
interesting things.
These are the things
that will be interesting to the customer.
For example, I can give you
an example of a wine company
that held a competition
among
Argentine wine.
It was three years ago,
but the competition was very interesting
and inexpensive.
They held a competition
for the best wholesalers
that would sell
the most products.
And the number of winners
was not one, not two,
but as many as 15.
The winning companies
were offered
to go, for example,
to a trip
to a competition
in Formula 1,
or to the World Cup,
or to the Brazilian Carnival.
Try to find such ideas
that will be interesting to the customer.
Not just a trip to Turkey,
but something interesting,
where you will not
gather often.
Such non-standard offers
make you participate
in such competitions
and such games
and fight for such prizes.
The next point
is the increased warranty period.
One of the methods
when you say
that you have an increased
warranty for a product
is to be careful
and not to spoil yourself.
The product must be of high quality
and meet the requirements.
If you are returned
a mass product,
you will not cope
with such a flow.
Although it works
great for the customer.
The next method is the lottery.
It is also a good method
because it is inexpensive.
Imagine,
your customers
win only one, two or three times.
Of course, the costs are small,
and there are many participants.
But the lottery has
one feature.
It must be registered
in the state bodies.
If the gift amount
is more than 3,000,
your customer will have to pay taxes.
Therefore, be careful
and pay fines
if it is used improperly.
Another method is
club participation.
There are many clubs now.
There are clubs of different interests,
clubs of the same brand,
clubs of football fans,
clubs of famous personalities.
You can work
with all these clubs
to promote the product.
The second method
is to create your own club
where your customers
will be interested.
Internet shops
have announced
reading clubs.
They give discounts
and it is interesting for people.
Not everyone can join.
The exclusivity of the club
is determined by the fact
that not everyone can join.
Only a person or a company
is determined
by special criteria
that you will determine.
Club membership
should be interesting and exclusive.
Otherwise, it will be
not a club,
but a gathering of people.
It will not be interesting.
Another method is
to attract a friend.
Many companies
offer discount cards
for friends.
It is great
because we increase
the number of potential clients.
It is nice to give a discount card
to a friend who has not
participated in a promotion.
It will encourage him
to participate in a promotion
and buy a product.
If you have such an opportunity,
I recommend you to use it.
We have discussed
the main methods of stimulation.
But since there are so many of them,
how to choose the right one?
What should we pay attention to?
In your lecture material
there is an algorithm
that will help you
quickly decide
what you need.
I want to draw your attention
to the following algorithm.
All methods of stimulation
are divided into two groups.
They are called
continuous and selective stimulation.
Continuous stimulation
is when we stimulate all our clients
and buyers.
For example,
everyone who
buys something
this week will get
a discount.
Selective stimulation
is when we stimulate
not everyone.
For example, every 10th client will get a discount
or a competition.
In the competition, several people win.
This is also a selective method.
What are the main differences?
Selective stimulation gives a very good
optimization of expenses and budget.
You do not need to stimulate everyone
and optimize your expenses.
In the absence of money
such a strategy
is very beneficial
and interesting.
It allows you to maintain
the interest in the product
and does not make you spend a lot of money.
Then you will follow the algorithm
and the arrows.
Everything is clear there.
As a result,
you will have a choice
not of 15 methods of stimulation
but of 3-4.
According to the budget,
you can choose one method
and move on.
You can develop mechanics
and a program of stimulation.
What are the main tools?
I would like to talk to you
and focus on the most effective
from a practical point of view.
Discounts for volume
are the most popular
among our intermediaries.
Discounts allow them to earn
and the main goal of intermediaries
is to earn money,
not to sell or promote
a new product to the market.
Earning money is their main goal.
Discounts allow them to do this.
Therefore,
discounts are the most popular
and the most basic method.
Another method
that concerns finances
is the delay of payment
or payment conditions.
Each company has different
financial practices.
However,
you can credit the client
by delaying payment
which is also a financial method
of stimulating sales.
You need to invest money
now or later.
It is an important point
for each company
as well as in the case
of the credit system.
Bonuses for fulfilling
the established plan.
The only thing you need
is a clear and feasible plan.
If you make an unfulfilled plan,
your bonuses will not work.
You will save money
and you will not get the results
you want.
The next method
is the competition between companies.
It is a very good method
and works well.
However,
you need to be clear
and accountable
about the company's performance
and its indicators.
Moreover,
you need to see
who is in which position.
You need to send this information
to each company
so that they can stimulate
their business.
It is not enough
to see what the other company
is doing.
You need to be more active
and participate in the competition.
The next method
is the free product.
I have already mentioned
that it is a very good
method of stimulation,
especially when you bring
a new product to the market.
It works well.
It is a loyalty
and an opportunity to sell
and to give a gift.
If you practice
this method,
it works
very well.
There are two more methods
that we will discuss.
The first one is the payment
of the shelves to the retail.
If you work with retail companies,
you provide the funds
to your intermediary
to pay the shelves to the retail.
This helps him to develop
his business
and sell your products.
It is a very good method of stimulation.
However,
you need to have a strict control
of the shelfs
and the payment.
The recommendation is
to sign a three-way contract
between the retail
and the distributor
so that the retail
understands where the money
comes from and where the money
comes from.
You pay for the representation
of your products on the shelves.
The second method is the presentation.
However,
many intermediaries refuse to learn.
They say that they have many suppliers
and everyone wants to learn
and do something.
What should you do in this situation?
You need to inform about the product.
If the retail representatives
do not know anything about your product,
they will not be able to sell it normally.
The solution is the following.
You should conduct training
and call it not a training
on your product,
but a training on the method of selling
based on the example of your product.
Or you can conduct training
on the basis of merchandising
based on the example of your product.
It will be correct and good.
You will not only teach,
but also show it
on your examples.
And, in fact,
the holy of holies will allow you
to sell your product to the retailers.
These are the main methods
of stimulating intermediaries.
We have discussed the most popular
and the advantages and disadvantages.
I would like to add
to the discounts.
They are the most popular.
You have a very large list of discounts
in your educational materials.
I have collected them
from different companies.
Maybe you will add it
to the list of discounts
that were not there.
But nevertheless,
pay attention to the following.
You can make
the discounts that are already
practiced in your company
stand out.
And those that are not practiced
are your potential.
You can apply them from time to time.
Remember we said that in order
for a company not to get used to discounts,
you need to constantly change the conditions.
Then your intermediaries
will not know what you will come up with tomorrow.
And they will not expect
the next discount,
bonuses, and so on.
You will constantly change the conditions.
I recommend getting acquainted with this list
and applying
certain things that are
very useful and
very effective when selling
products.
I would like to talk about a few more points
in the framework of working with intermediaries.
There are two methods
that help us establish
a closer relationship
with intermediaries.
The first one is called a rebate.
In Russian,
if you look at the essence of this method,
you can say that it is a retro bonus
that is often not used by the company.
What is the meaning of this?
It is a return on the money
for buying a product.
A rebate program is a return
on the money
for buying a product for a certain amount.
For example, you say that your product
costs 1,000 rubles,
but if you buy a batch of 1,000 pieces,
we will give you a 15% discount.
That is, we will return 150 rubles
from each product.
But this will only happen if you buy
a certain amount.
The client says, yes, I will buy it,
but I am not ready to do it right away,
because it is immediate investment.
He says, I will do it
within three months or a year.
But if you give him a discount in advance,
where is the guarantee
that he will buy it from you?
Yes, he signed the contract,
but this is not a guarantee that he will definitely do it.
In the end, he will tell you,
well, he could not, what will you do with it?
Such a rebate discount
or retro bonus is a guarantee
that he will either
buy this turnover
or you will not pay him
extra money.
And this discount that you will have to pay him
will work for you
for a whole year.
That is, it will be money in the turnover of your company.
This is also a plus.
And, in fact, at the end of the period
when the client buys the entire batch
that he promised,
you return this amount to him
without cash,
which you promised,
150 rubles from each product.
And this is either a retro bonus
or a rebate program,
whatever you call it.
What is interesting, in Russia,
this is mainly applied on the trade channel,
and in the West,
retail stores and retail networks
For example,
you buy some product,
and you get a part of the amount on your card.
This amount as money
is on this card.
You can return to this store
and buy something in the same store,
but you cannot take it with money.
Thus, you are forced to return
to this store,
become a more loyal, permanent client.
That's how.
The next point I would like to talk about
is the so-called MDF funds.
Market Development Fund.
What are these funds?
You agree with your intermediaries
literally about the following.
If they buy a certain product
in a certain amount,
you give them an additional discount,
but you do not give them a discount
with money,
you accumulate this discount
on your account.
A virtual account is created
with the client
and accumulated.
The manager of the sale
must monitor this account.
What is the purpose of this money?
To promote the product
on the client's territory.
What usually happens?
Our intermediaries do not have money
to promote our product.
They are not very interested in this.
They say, promote yourself if you need to.
We are interested in promoting the product.
We offer an additional discount,
accumulate the amount.
If this amount is accumulated,
then the intermediary can use it
as a marketing budget
to promote our product
on their market.
He promotes not only our product,
but also his company.
In any case, he should be interested.
According to the rules,
you must say right away
that you do not pay for this with money.
Another condition that can be made.
If a client develops
or comes up with a very interesting idea
or a good program,
then you can add your own funds
to this fund
so that there is enough money for the implementation of this program.
I will give an example.
In June, I participated in a conference
held by furniture companies.
Companies for the production of office furniture.
One of the companies
practices
the creation of such funds.
They introduced this practice
two years ago
and summed up the first results.
There was a very interesting example.
A company for the production of office chairs.
It has dealers and distributors.
One of the distributors
also accumulated such a fund
and decided to make a program
to promote expensive office chairs.
They came up with a very interesting
and unusual idea.
Usually, a test drive is held
for cars.
So, this test drive
was proposed to be held for chairs.
Can you imagine?
There was a screen
in the car
where a young man
or a young woman sits in a chair
and rides on it.
There was an inscription
Test Drive Chair.
What did they propose?
They proposed to order a chair
and try to sit on it.
They brought a chair and left it for three days.
Of course, most often expensive chairs
are ordered by the management.
The company's manager,
having sat in a good chair
would not find money
to buy this chair.
You know, the program worked
absolutely perfectly.
Firstly,
of all the chairs
they offered
for a test drive
for several days
almost 70%
ended up in sales.
The result was amazing.
This program was paid for by such an MDF fund.
The company itself
did not have enough money.
The head company, the manufacturer,
added money
because the idea was very interesting
and it received a very good response.
Then it was copied by other companies.
This is an example.
I recommend such funds to be created
but to discuss the conditions on the shore.
Dear colleagues,
I would like to discuss
one more point with you.
This is the development of relations
with key clients
and the development of loyalty programs.
Loyalty programs are now
a talk of tongues.
Unfortunately, not many people do it.
Why do we need them?
Our clients are not only
our buyers.
In fact, they are business partners.
They help us to do our business.
We help them to earn money.
Why not become partners?
When a company
feels like a partner
there is less risk of losing a client,
less chance
that he will leave for another company.
That is why
loyalty programs
are so well and actively practiced.
I want to give you
an example of a developed
loyalty program
that we developed ourselves
and implemented
within the framework of our company.
The company operates on the elite alcohol market.
But it doesn't matter.
In fact,
it is a loyalty program.
It will be presented
in full in your lecture material.
You can take the main sections
and, of course,
adjust the content of the sections
to your company.
You can leave the main sections.
Each of them is especially important
for working with key clients.
I will comment on the loyalty program
that we developed.
The first part of the loyalty program
is, of course,
financial support.
We should not forget that
intermediaries earn money.
Financial support is the first thing
they will pay attention to.
What do we offer them?
Of course, we offer an exclusive system
of discounts for each client.
For example,
if someone has a very expensive delivery,
for example, a partner in Krasnoyarsk Krai,
who needs to deliver
to the areas
with rare periods of navigation,
we offer additional expenses.
If we can help,
we form an individual program
and offer individual discounts.
The second point is payment
by entering the network.
We understand perfectly
that if we need to enter
the network exchange,
there is a so-called
entrance ticket.
Our company offers
help to enter
the network of products
on the condition
that they will agree with us.
In the part of financial support,
we also offer
advertising support,
that is, funds for
various programs.
On the condition that
the intermediary pays part of the funds.
If you do everything for him,
for the intermediary,
it will not be a loyalty program,
but a constant sponsorship.
So that the intermediary
is active and responsible
for the result,
he must also contribute
to this promotion.
Another point that we offer
in the framework of financial support
is the purchase of additional equipment,
such as cabinets, refrigerators,
and various showcases.
This equipment
can be included
as part of the payment
by entering the trading point
or instead of the payment
by entering the trading point.
Here you can consider
various options.
This is all about financial support.
The next block is
information support.
It is not like information
that we need
when making management decisions.
We collect information, of course.
We have analysts
who are constantly engaged in this.
They collect information on the market,
information from the industry press,
reviews of sources,
conduct various studies,
evaluate competitors,
consider the dynamics of the market.
We do a lot of work.
Why can't we
share this with our key partners?
Of course, we can do this.
Moreover, we actually do it anyway,
and additional services
will be free for us.
We simply offer
a selection of this information,
its distribution,
so that they can make
their management decisions
on our market
in the same comfortable way.
The next group
in the loyalty program
is advertising materials.
Advertising materials
are usual catalogs, leaflets,
souvenir products,
encyclopedias of drinks
that we made in a multimedia version.
Everything that helps
to present our product
to our clients.
What I would like to say here is that
if you pay for catalogs
and send them to your clients,
think about
how to spend
your money more effectively.
For example,
you can embed information
into the catalog of your client.
I will explain why.
Imagine that a sales representative
goes to a sales point
to offer your product
or to your client.
It doesn't matter.
He has a big portfolio
with documents,
his own catalog of the company,
and he has 15 more companies
that he sells
and he has to carry all catalogs.
Most often he throws them away.
He just throws them away.
He doesn't carry them with him.
And if he doesn't offer them,
your product is not sold.
That's all. The situation is simple.
If you have separate lists
in your client's catalog
and you place your product there,
be sure that he will carry
this catalog with him
and offer it.
At least your clients will see
your product and will have a reason
to order it.
The next part of the loyalty program
is offering help to our specialists.
What do I mean?
I mean consulting,
that is, training on goods,
logistics,
for example, the implementation of business processes
that we have already implemented in our company,
we help to implement in the company of competitors.
We have already gone this way,
we have seen mistakes,
we have seen additional subtleties,
moments that need to be taken into account.
We can share our experience
with our colleagues and build
correct business processes
in their business.
This helps a lot and makes
the business more profitable,
so it is recommended to offer
such services as a program.
The next part is joint actions
and joint projects.
What can be offered here?
When we feel like partners,
when we have some joint activity
within the framework of these joint projects,
we have developed a trading brand
in which several participants,
several key clients,
we developed it together,
we promoted it together to the market.
This united us as a group of companies
that bring this product to the market.
This made us partners
and does not allow us to fall apart
under certain circumstances.
Next, this is joint participation
in exhibitions,
joint participation in sponsorship projects,
maybe even on the client's territory,
when you yourself
offer him participation
in this sponsorship project
on the condition that, of course,
the intermediary company
also participates there independently.
Also, as a joint action,
you can offer a product presentation
for the partner's clients.
That is, your people
go to the intermediary's territory,
where a certain number of clients
are gathered
and a presentation is held.
You can hold such presentations
with the participation of suppliers
whom you attract to this activity,
which greatly increases
the image of the company
in the eyes of the client
and helps him in sales,
which is also very important.
The next point is the training
that we can offer.
We offer a list of trainings
that we can hold
at the client's company.
Naturally, we do not ask
for any payment for this,
that is, this is within the framework
of the loyalty program.
The next section is demo equipment,
which we can offer them
as part of the demonstration.
This includes a list of products
that we offer for free,
various miniatures,
that is, a product in a minimal version,
souvenir products,
the same encyclopedia of drinks
that I told you about,
that is, a catalog of products
in a multimedia version.
Everything that will help them
make the presentation of your product
more comfortable, more popular.
And two more points,
two sections that we included
when we talked about our partners
on our website,
talked about the companies
we work with,
reflected the results of various contests,
various promotions,
the profile of our partner
was always posted on our website.
This is additional advertising,
in fact.
And another point,
which was also recorded in the loyalty program,
is various contests,
funny, funny,
but helping to unite
in interests.
This is a contest for the best showroom,
a contest for the best joke,
we had a contest for the best
secretary of the referent,
when we simply called the company
and evaluated
how the client was met,
how they talked to him.
A lot of employees participated.
This is a contest for a children's drawing,
which, in general, probably goes
from Soviet times, but does not lose its relevance,
because we all are dying
looking at the vision of the world
through the eyes of children.
This unites us,
because it gives us a positive charge of emotions.
And we also posted
very interesting promotions,
which were held in certain companies,
and even not in our industry,
as a source of ideas,
so that you could see
where and what can be done,
what to look up, what to adopt,
loyalty programs were developed,
offered not only to key clients,
but also to selected ones, not to everyone.
This is a very important point,
because the company does not have enough resources
to provide such a list of services
to each client.
And moreover, an exclusive client,
a key one, should feel
his exclusivity,
offering such a program,
you let him feel it,
and you make it your partner,
your friend,
and you strongly oppose
the fact that the client
should leave you for another competitor,
for another company.
I also want to offer you
a table in your lecture material,
where you will find
a rating of various promotions,
based on their incentives.
There are percentages,
which promotion increases
the sales volume by how many percent.
Some promotions have a very long period,
a very long gap in numbers,
but this is due to the fact
that I collected statistics
from different industries,
from different sources,
from different markets,
so there are minimums and maximums
that I personally observed.
Maybe you will correct this table
according to your database
and you will have a ready-made database
inside the company,
where you will note
how much and how your sales grew
during a certain promotion.
I would like to say a few words
about merchandising,
just a couple,
and in your lecture materials
there will be a more detailed
material on merchandising,
there will be a development
of a standard of merchandising
for the company,
which is very important
if your product is presented on the shelves.
We will talk about the main points.
I would like to focus on the fact
that merchandising is art of selling,
and in general it is a correct
and clear calculation
according to all the basic rules
of merchandising.